Our well-designed body is indeed a reason for us to rejoice.
Certain body parts help us to perceive the world around us.
For example, please turn with me to Proverbs 20 verse 12.
Let us see what the Scriptures say in connection with two sensory organs.
Here in Proverbs 20 verse 12 we read,
The hearing ear and the seeing eye Jehovah has made both of them.
Yes, our ability to hear and see is from Jehovah.
How grateful we are that he has given us the senses.
They allow us to enjoy life more fully.
The hear, for example, allows us to hear delightful sounds.
How does it make you feel when you hear birds chirping
or the relaxing sound of a babbling brook?
And how we cherish hearing the voice of a loved one.
Maybe you're made, your father or mother, or your child.
We also enjoy beautiful music.
Even those who cannot hear can enjoy music.
Some connect with the song's bass notes or its beat rather than its melody.
In the following video, note how Jehovah created us to enjoy a wide variety of sounds.
Our world is full of sounds.
Some are natural.
Others we create.
We can hear music before we're born
and can develop the love of music as we grow.
We can compose music,
be moved by it,
and replay it in our minds.
Musical instruments typically combine a sound generator
which produces tones with a resonator,
such as wood or metal, which adds volume.
The design resembles our own vocal organs.
But few instruments compare to the beauty of the human voice.
Our hearing complements the voice.
We can listen to things that draw us closer to God
and use the voice he gave us to praise him with joy.
Praise John for Jehovah is good.
Sing praises to his name for it is pleasant.
Yes, sounds definitely enrich our life.
They make our life more enjoyable.
Does this not instill in us the desire to praise Jehovah?
Now let us please open to Isaiah chapter 30 verse 21.
Here we see that ears and hearing are sometimes used in the figurative way in the Bible.
Isaiah 30 verse 21 reads,
and your own ears will hear word behind you saying,
this is the way, walk in it,
in case you should go to the right
or in case you should go to the left.
We can hear Jehovah's figurative voice from his word the Bible
and from his guidance through the Holy Spirit and the congregation.
Jehovah's guidance is so clear it is as if we could hear him speaking to us.
Let me ask you a question.
Does the sound of Jehovah's voice make you enjoy life?
Does it make you rejoice?
I suppose we would all answer with a clear yes.
Jehovah's voice is a delightful sound.
We all know how good it feels when we apply Jehovah's guidance
and enjoy success in life.
Let's think again about our literal ears.
They are very sensitive, so we need to protect them.
Certain sounds, noise, can even damage them.
So to protect our hearing, you might use acoustic earmarks to block out harmful noise.
By what about our figurative ears?
Do we need to protect them too?
Are there sounds out there that can harm us?
Yes, there are.
The reality is we live in a world full of damaging and unpleasant noise.
So then, how can we protect ourselves?
Here are three measures we need to take.
First, block out the harmful noise around us.
We can put on noise-canceling headphones.
In other words, we refuse to listen to anything that can distance us from Jehovah.
Like what?
Deceptive reasoning and false accusations, for example, are very dangerous.
They undermine our trust in Jehovah's organization.
Some who were once part of the Christian congregation now attempt to mislead us.
They spread half-truths and outright lies about Jehovah's organization.
Harmful sounds might also come from non-Christian workmates, schoolmates,
or contacts on social media.
They do not share our beliefs.
So conversations with them are rarely faith-strengthening.
They might weaken our faith, making our Christian life course more difficult.
Therefore, we need to protect our ears from damaging noise by not listening to it.
What is the second way to protect ourselves from damaging sounds?
Headphones can help us block out the noise around us
and replace it with something delightful, maybe a favorite song.
So put on our figurative headphones and listen to hold some things.
Our favorite sounds, delightful sounds from Jehovah.
This is what we hear at our Christian meetings.
And when we sing at our Christian meetings like we've seen in the video,
our sounds praise Jehovah.
What we read in our publications, what we see in our website,
what we hear in our building conversations with our brothers and sisters,
all of these beautiful sounds protect our ears.
A third aid for protecting our ears is Jehovah's help.
Sometimes we might not feel like putting on our headphones.
We might argue it is so much more comfortable without them.
The damage to my ears will not be that serious.
Now this is where Jehovah comes into play.
He will help us listen to his voice whenever we ask him for his help in prayer.
He will motivate us to put on our headphones, so to speak.
He gives us the inner strength to stop listening to sounds that might be tempting
and yet are so dangerous.
So what are the three ways to protect our figurative ears?
We stop listening to damaging sounds.
We listen to hold some things and we pray for Jehovah's help.
Dear brothers and sisters, Jehovah created sounds because he wants us to enjoy life.
Please let us continue to make wise use of our hearing.
And then we will rejoice in hearing delightful sounds forever.
Brother John Ackron, helper to the coordinators committee,
will now present the last talk of this symposium.
Creation proves that Jehovah wants us to rejoice, fascinating animals.